# EpiCauses – a cancer surveillance web API to track the causes of cancer in humans.

## Rationale
The World Health Organization Encyclopedia of human carcinogenic is a series of scientific publications that evaluate the evidence for the carcinogenicity of a wide range of chemicals, complex mixtures, occupational exposures, physical and biological agents, and lifestyle factors. The program is widely used by regulatory agencies, industry, and the public health community to assess the potential health risks of exposure to carcinogenic agents. All of your fifty years of collection are freely available on the web. 
Tracking the causes of cancer on the web faces several challenges mainly due to the structure of the data and a variety of sources. To date, most of the knowledge on the causes of cancer is available on the web only in flat reports, extensive textbooks, and scientific articles, usually in .pdf format, normally stored on the server side. With the increased availability of solutions to retrieve data from public web Services, web APIs emerged as a valuable tool for creating scientific visualizations combining semantic web and machine learning approaches (1). This means that flat web content should be structured in a comprehensible, interactive, navigable fashion, based on client-side data access.
The EpiCauses Tracker aims to create a cancer surveillance ecosystem for knowledge generation on the causes of cancer using text mining of open web content. The platform’s ability to generate custom reports and visualizations makes it easier for scientists and the population to identify what is known about the causes of cancer in humans. Our goal was to create an integrative web API that could visualize and navigate the content of the text and create common answers on the causes of cancer using machine learning techniques.
